[perhaps peasants shouldn't be able to fight?]

[ must choose values for siege tower ]

[ must incorporate fortifaction stuff into this doc ]

Combat
------

Each kind of fighter is given an attack and defense rating:

                     attack  defense
                    +---------------
    peasant         |   1       1 
    soldier         |   5       5
    swordsman       |  15      15
    knight          |  45      45
    elite guard     |  90      90
    crossbowman     |  25       1 
    archer          |  50       5 
    elite archer    |  75      10 

When one man attacks another, the chance that the attacker will kill
the defender is proportional to their attack and defense ratings.

    A(attack=60) vs B(defense=30)     A has a 2/3 chance of killing B
    A(attack=60) vs B(defense=60)     A has a 1/2 chance of killing B

During combat, the computer will pick a man at random, choosing from
both sides, and have him attack a randomly selected enemy.  If the
attack succeeds, the enemy will be killed.  This continues until the
battle is over.

When one side has sustained 50% losses, that side is declared the
loser.  The winner may then attempt to take prisoners.  The chance
that a given defeated unit will be taken prisoner is proportional
to the sizes of the remaining forces.

        1:1     0%
        2:1     50%
        3:1     100%

If the winning side outnumbers the defeated force by 2:1, there
is a 50% chance that a given defeated unit will be captured.
Defeated units which are not captured retreat from battle, but
remain in the province.

A combatant may set the no-prisoners flag, in which case battle
will continue past 50% losses, until the weaker force is completely
destroyed.


Nobles in combat
----------------

Nobles have strong innate heroic abilities, and so even an unarmed,
untrained noble is a formidable opponent on the battlefield.

An unarmed, untrained noble is rated (attack=80, defense=80).

Combat skills such as archery and swordplay will improve these ratings.

|When a noble is hit, instead of instantly dying, the noble will
|lose 10-20 points of health.  The noble will not take a hit, however,
|until all of the other fighting men in the unit have been killed.

One hit will take a noble out of the fighting.  However, Nobles do not
instantly die from hit.  Instead, they will suffer a 10-20 (15-25?)
loss of health.



Fortifications
--------------

Structures which may aid fighters in battle are rated for
their defensive bonus.

	Castle Imperius [gx56], castle, fort 25

During battle, the fortification rating is added to the defense
number for each of the men inside the structure.

Hmmm.

Increase fort level from n to n+1 requires one worker to work n days,
pay n gold.

1.  Structure may take a hit.  Each hit reduces the fort level by one.
    Once fort level reaches zero, each hit increases damage by one.
    Once damage is at 100%, the structure is destroyed.

2.  The number of men protected by different structures:

	Castle			first 500
	Tower			first 100
	Galley or roundship	first 50
	Other structures	first 50

3.  Siege engines

	delivers 3-5 hits against a fortification
	catapults may fire from behind
	rams and siege towers must be used in front

		catapult*	25	25
		battering ram	30	20
		siege tower	20	30

		* - missile weapon

4.  Have only one rating for structures ?
	fortify/repair raises it
	combat, natural forces lowers it

	Excess over 100 is defensive bonus
	Cost is 5 days, 5 gold to repair points < 100
	Each point over 100 costs one additional day and one gold.


Other factors
-------------

1.  The side with the best tactician gets a free round of attacks
    at the start of battle.

    If both sides have no unit skilled in Tactics, or if the tacticians 
    are equally matched, then neither side will gain a free round of
    attacks.

    The best tactician for each side will be chosen, regardless of
    where in the stack he may be.

2.  Knights and elite guard receive a -25 penalty to both their
    attack and defense ratings when fighting in a swampy province.

3.  In wind, the attack rating for crossbowmen, archers and
    elite archers is halved.  In rain, the attack rating for
    missile fighters is reduced to their defense rating.

4.  When battling on the ocean, siege engines are not used.

    Knights and elite guard receive a -25 penalty to both their
    attack and defense ratings.

    If the galley is fitted with a ram, it will behave like a
    battering ram on land.



Change prisoner function to be:

	1:1	25%
	2:1	50%
	3:1	75%

	"Taking prisoners in battle and claiming loot requires
	many soldiers to run down the fleeing enemy.  Thus, the
	chance of success is based on numerical advantage rather
	than combat skill."

n.  If the leader of a winning force is killed during combat,
    the new leader's prisoners flag will be used to determine
    whether prisoners will be taken or executed.

