
This is an examination of the economic balance between maintenance costs
for men-as-inventory and what they may produce.

	What limits how many men your nobles can recruit?
	How much does it cost to support your men?
	How may your men earn money?

Here are the men-as-inventory:

	peasant
	soldiers (many kinds: soldier archer swordsman knight etc.)
	worker
	sailor

Background:

	Peasants are the raw material, harvested through RECRUIT.
	Locations will have a number of peasants which can be recruited
	each month by paying them a hiring bonus, say 50 gold/man.  [1]

	As with other kinds of region resources, only so many peasants
	will be stuffed into locations each month to be recruited.

	Peasants may be processed into the other kinds of men by the
	use of various training skills.

	The game supplies no other way to get finished men besides
	peasants.  Players must produce all the sailors, soldiers
	and workers.

Maintenance costs and production:

	Soldiers, workers and sailors have obvious primary uses.
	Peasants have no primary use except as a raw material for
	the other kinds of men.

	We must decide how much to charge each man for maintenance
	cost, and how much each man may produce with a WORK-like
	command.  Here are some ideas:

	1.  WORK only makes money for the noble, there is no way
	    for men-as-inventory to earn gold with a simple command.

	2.  WORK may earn additional money if accompanied by peasants.
	    Say: peasant maint = 1 gold/month, WORK = 1 gold/week/peasant.

	3.  A sailing skill Fishing may be used by sailors to earn gold
	    from the sea.  It is tempting to have a token fish item
	    that the sailors would get from the ocean (resource limited,
	    of course) and sell in port cities.

	    However, we can ignore that when deciding how much gold this
	    activity earns:  say, each man earns 1 fish/week, fish can be
	    sold for 1-2 gold.

	4.  Soldiers TAX or PILLAGE a location.  Say, each soldier would earn
	    1/2 gold per week.

	    However, there must be a negative consequence of this activity.
	    Say, each soldier who PILLAGES reduces the recruitable peasants
	    by one.  Or the demand for fish in port cities.

	    Perhaps one must be the location owner in order to TAX?
	    But anyone could PILLAGE... ?  Should there even be a TAX command?

	5.  No unique work-like activity suggests itself for workers.
	    Perhaps they can be used like peasants for the WORK command.

	Simplifying, we get:

	man		maint cost	earn
	---		----------	----
	peasant		   1 gold	1 gold/week
	worker		   1 gold	1 gold/week
	sailor		   1 gold	1 gold/week
	soldier		  2+ gold*	1 gold/week

* base soldier; higher trained soldiers cost more, but earn the same pillaging:

	soldier		2 gold
	archer		3 gold
	swordsman	3 gold
	knight		5 gold
	elite guard	7 gold


Exponential growth
------------------

We want to plug any holes in growth limits for the men-as-inventory.
Since we have a firm hand on the number of units, however, we can
simply use number-of-men caps as a last resort:

	WORK		up to 20 men
	fishing		resource limited
	tax/pillage	resource limited (depletes peasants from RECRUIT base)


Note [1] on RECRUIT
-------------------

The pool of recruitable peasants is finite each turn.  How do we
deal with excess demand?  There are several possible strategies:

	1.  As with the harvesting of other resources in Olympia,
	    the first unit in the location gets first shot at
	    taking them, then we go down the list.

	    This is consistent with the other harvesting systems.

	    This favors land owners, who can monopolize recruitment.

	2.  Allow the bonus to be varied.  Recruitment happens
	    in a phase at the end of the month, with men joining
	    for the highest bonus.  Choosing between equal bonuses
	    is made randomly.

	    This favors rich players.

	3.  Don't vary the bonus, but choose randomly between all
	    the units recruiting.  Everyone gets a fair chance.

A wrinkle is that there are some skill uses which also perform recruitment.
Whipping up a religious fervor in a crowd and getting them to follow you,
using that silver tongue to convince peasants to join your cause, etc.
For #2 and #3, I would have these skill uses take peasant out of the pool
before the general RECRUIT phase occurred at the end of the turn.

--
Rich Skrenta <skrenta@rt.com>

From skrenta Mon Jul  5 19:59:43 1993
Subject: Re: A thought
To: sjc@cs.purdue.edu (Steve Chapin)
Date: Mon, 5 Jul 93 19:59:43 EDT
Cc: srt@aero.org (Scott Turner)
In-Reply-To: <199307052311.AA08695@bredbeddle.cs.purdue.edu>; from "Steve Chapin" at Jul 05, 93 6:11 pm
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.2 PL16]
Status: RO

> This is where an "ON" condition would be great, to stop pillaging.
> What is the current Oly II mechanism for guarding a location?

Still undecided.  We do know who the owner of the location is,
essentially the first unit there.  He may be in a castle and all that.

> Hmm.  Still not quite right.  Comments?

I like this flavor of TAX/PILLAGE.  We need to come up with some
specific rule ideas.

"Commerce" is a vague term, since most economic transactions in Oly
are up to the players.  Things we can control are:

	a)  The amount of peasants available to recruit
	b)  The number of fish a port city will buy
	c)  The number of menial jobs available for work

Ahh, too many ideas I can't tie together.  I will simply number them.

1.  I don't currently have a population stat, but it seems that all of
    these could be based on one.

2.  A population statistic is often troublesome because it has so many
    "real world" connotations, i.e. "it says pop is zero but I did X",
    or "how can this little city have 50k people in it?"  So if pop is
    too icky, we could use a general "economic health" rating instead.

3.  We would need to come up with:
	max and min pop for cities and the different kinds of provinces
	formulas to base a/b/c on.
	How TAX changed pop, specifically

4.  Perhaps the argument to tax can be the amount of gold which will
    be confiscated from each citizen.  TAX 3 would rake in 3 * pop.

    PILLAGE likely wouldn't be symmetrical to TAX then, but that's
    probably okay.

5.  Ways to increase economic health/pop:

	Some sort of administration skill use
	Declaring a festival ?

	Perhaps there could be an Administration category with
	various subskills:

		1. Hold city festival (requires three turns of planning,
			payment of gold)
		2. Improve judicial system
		3. Streamline beaurocracy
		4. Weed out corruption
		5. Hold public meeting*

	*  Perhaps the citizens would suggest one of 1-4.

	Seems a bit weak.  Let me know.

6.  The distinction between TAX and PILLAGE is unclear, but we can worry
    about that later.

7.  What causes the citizens concern?

	Pillaging
	High taxes
	Wild animal attacks
	Necromancy research  :-)

    Perhaps any of these things would lower economic health.
    Do economies left alone thrive, or does the rule need to do something?

--
Rich Skrenta <skrenta@rt.com>

