Scarred by my experience with the economy in Oly I, I have avoided
using gold as a primary limit for any important resource:

			main limit
			----------
	units		NP's
	men		time and units
	skills		time and units

All other products in the game are derived from these inputs, limited
also by province resources.  There are no supermarkets where goods can
be bought at artificially low prices.

If I don't assign a gold cost to these activities, gold loses its
meaning.  What's the point of money if you can't buy anything with it?

Do I need gold at all, then?  Maybe I don't.  But here are some things
it would be good for:

	o  Gold as an additional limit on activities makes the game
	   more interesting.

	o  I can use gold as a prize when monsters are killed or
	   old ruins are found.

	o  Activities such as work, entertainment, "work crowd for
	   silvers", etc. need to generate gold.

	o  Taxing needs gold.

	o  Entrance fees.

	o  Players like gold [sjc]

Missing from this list are maintenance costs, which I would like
to leave out of the game because they are annoying.

So to work gold into the system, I must fix some prices.  The important
ones are the cost of men, and the output of work and tax.

	RECRUIT costs 100 gold per peasant
	WORK yields 25 gold/week + 2 gold per peasant

There are many suggestions for a taxation system.  The primary choice
seems to be between one where taxes are levied against real player
activities, and one which makes taxation a return on economic investment
in the location.

Plan 1:
	A ruler invests money in his province through Administration skill.
	The ruler may obtain a return on his investment through TAX.
	Warlords may PILLAGE a location, siezing money for themselves
		and harming the ruler's investment.
	The ruler may over-tax, thus hurting his investment.

	Concerns:
		I'm not sure if this would be difficult to tune or not.
		It seems like it could be made equivalent to the
		work/recruit cycle.  Yield would be set a 8%, capped for
		some maximum level of economic development.

		Thus a maxed-out location would be equivalent to n
		peasants working.

Plan 2:
	A ruler may impose additional fees to be paid for WORK,
	RECRUIT, STUDY, etc.

		tax recruit 5	# charge five more for each recruit
				# extra gold goes to ruler

		tax hire 100
		tax work 1

	Concerns:
		Might not be enough players in a location to make this
		system useful.


 *  *  *

This is an examination of the economic balance between maintenance costs
for men-as-inventory and what they may produce.

	What limits how many men your nobles can recruit?
	How much does it cost to support your men?
	How may your men earn money?

Here are the men-as-inventory:

	peasant
	soldiers (many kinds: soldier archer swordsman knight etc.)
	worker
	sailor

Background:

	Peasants are the raw material, harvested through RECRUIT.
	Locations will have a number of peasants which can be recruited
	each month by paying them a hiring bonus, say 50 gold/man.  [1]

	As with other kinds of region resources, only so many peasants
	will be stuffed into locations each month to be recruited.

	Peasants may be processed into the other kinds of men by the
	use of various training skills.

	The game supplies no other way to get finished men besides
	peasants.  Players must produce all the sailors, soldiers
	and workers.

Maintenance costs and production:

	Soldiers, workers and sailors have obvious primary uses.
	Peasants have no primary use except as a raw material for
	the other kinds of men.

	We must decide how much to charge each man for maintenance
	cost, and how much each man may produce with a WORK-like
	command.  Here are some ideas:

	1.  WORK only makes money for the noble, there is no way
	    for men-as-inventory to earn gold with a simple command.

	2.  WORK may earn additional money if accompanied by peasants.
	    Say: peasant maint = 1 gold/month, WORK = 1 gold/week/peasant.

	3.  A sailing skill Fishing may be used by sailors to earn gold
	    from the sea.  It is tempting to have a token fish item
	    that the sailors would get from the ocean (resource limited,
	    of course) and sell in port cities.

	    However, we can ignore that when deciding how much gold this
	    activity earns:  say, each man earns 1 fish/week, fish can be
	    sold for 1-2 gold.

	4.  Soldiers TAX or PILLAGE a location.  Say, each soldier would earn
	    1/2 gold per week.

	    However, there must be a negative consequence of this activity.
	    Say, each soldier who PILLAGES reduces the recruitable peasants
	    by one.  Or the demand for fish in port cities.

	    Perhaps one must be the location owner in order to TAX?
	    But anyone could PILLAGE... ?  Should there even be a TAX command?

	5.  No unique work-like activity suggests itself for workers.
	    Perhaps they can be used like peasants for the WORK command.

	Simplifying, we get:

	man		maint cost	earn
	---		----------	----
	peasant		   1 gold	1 gold/week
	worker		   1 gold	1 gold/week
	sailor		   1 gold	1 gold/week
	soldier		  2+ gold*	1 gold/week

* base soldier; higher trained soldiers cost more, but earn the same pillaging:

	soldier		2 gold
	archer		3 gold
	swordsman	3 gold
	knight		5 gold
	elite guard	7 gold


Exponential growth
------------------

We want to plug any holes in growth limits for the men-as-inventory.
Since we have a firm hand on the number of units, however, we can
simply use number-of-men caps as a last resort:

	WORK		up to 20 men
	fishing		resource limited
	tax/pillage	resource limited (depletes peasants from RECRUIT base)


Note [1] on RECRUIT
-------------------

The pool of recruitable peasants is finite each turn.  How do we
deal with excess demand?  There are several possible strategies:

	1.  As with the harvesting of other resources in Olympia,
	    the first unit in the location gets first shot at
	    taking them, then we go down the list.

	    This is consistent with the other harvesting systems.

	    This favors land owners, who can monopolize recruitment.

	2.  Allow the bonus to be varied.  Recruitment happens
	    in a phase at the end of the month, with men joining
	    for the highest bonus.  Choosing between equal bonuses
	    is made randomly.

	    This favors rich players.

	3.  Don't vary the bonus, but choose randomly between all
	    the units recruiting.  Everyone gets a fair chance.

A wrinkle is that there are some skill uses which also perform recruitment.
Whipping up a religious fervor in a crowd and getting them to follow you,
using that silver tongue to convince peasants to join your cause, etc.
For #2 and #3, I would have these skill uses take peasant out of the pool
before the general RECRUIT phase occurred at the end of the turn.




Provinces are rated on their economic development on a 1-100 scale.

Economic development determines:

	Number of WORK jobs available		= n (/ 5 ?)
	Number of recruitable peasants		= n / 10
	Amount produced from taxation
	Entertainment jobs available		= n / 10


TAX <level>

Where level = 1 to 5

Lowers econ development by ...


PILLAGE

Lowers econ development.


DEPUTIZE
	Allow designated unit to tax, make attacks.


Ways to invest:
	Hold a festival, costs x
	Improve city administration
	Hold king's court
	Improve city sewers

