
Here's part of the religion stuff I've been working on.  It's a
background/creation myth for Olympia.  I've tried to incorporate a lot
of different things that will be interesting to the players and give
them hints about different stuff.  Let me know how you like it...

                    MYTHOLOGY OF OLYMPIA
	    
In the beginning the Father of All Gods, called Sol, was alone in the
heavens.  Although he shone with radiance, the endless black night of
the Void swallowed his light.  Alone and unhappy, he wept silently.  His
tears collected into a cool blue ball that became Luna, called the
Mother of All Gods. 

Luna reflected Sol's light and together the two were happy for many
ages.  And as will always be when two love one another, children were
soon born.

At first, the children were content to play in the cool blue light of
their Mother and the bright yellow radiance of their father.  But Sol
soon realized that his children needed a place to grow and learn.  So
with Luna he created Olympia and placed his children there.

"Here you will learn to be gods, as your Mother and your Father are,"
said Sol to his children.  "Here I command you to compete, to learn and
to challenge; the greatest of you I shall call to join me in the
Heavens."  

Sol filled this place called Olympia with many strange creatures and
wonders to delight and instruct his children.  Foremost amongst all he
created man, and to man alone he gave the power to be a companion and
teacher to his sons and daughters. 

For many ages Man lived in harmony with the children of Sol.  Many
children of Sol became great in wisdom and power and were called forth
into the Heavens.  The night sky blazed with a thousand of Sol's
children, and Man was proud of his role as teacher and companion to
the Gods.  And always Sol and Luna loved one another and sent new
children to Olympia to learn to be Gods.

One of these children was named Nereid.  Of all of the children of Sol
and Luna, Nereid was the most lovely.  It is said that when she walked
the lands of Olympia, flowers sprung up in her footsteps.  She was also
wise and kindly, and became much loved by Man.  Always the favorite of
her father, she was soon called up into the Heavens, where she shone as
the brightest star in the night sky.

As the ages passed, Sol loved Nereid more and more deeply.  Always she
moved closer to her father, so that soon Nereid alone shone in the
daylight with her father.  Blinded by his daughter's beauty and wisdom,
Sol conceived an illicit desire for his daughter.  Although he hid this
love, Sol's heart was troubled.  His visage became cloudy, and Man upon
Olympia saw Sol reach out yearningly towards his daughter. 

Finally Sol was overcome by his desire and cast himself upon his
daughter.  The heavens burned a sickly purple at what Sol had done, and
the face of Luna became dark and swollen with sadness.  Nereid herself
was changed.  Her visage, once clear and blue like her mother, now
became the feeble orange of a guttering candle.  She cast herself across
the Heavens away from her father, hiding herself in shame, until soon
she could be seen only on the darkest of nights. 

Luna, too, turned away from Sol.  Once Luna had hung low over Olympia,
watching her children and protecting them and Man from many dangers. 
Now she drew herself further away and turned her face away from Sol, so
that for many days at a time Luna could not be seen at all in the night
sky. 

Of the union of Sol and Nereid a son was born, called Loki.  In the
nights following Sol's rape of his daughter, Loki could be seen rushing
across the sky, tearing open a great wound in the Heavens in his haste
to be with his father. 

But Sol refused to look upon Loki, and cast him down instead upon
Olympia, where he landed with a great crash that shook the mountains and
caused the seas to rise up in angry protest.

Loki had all the beauty of his mother and all the willful power of his
father.  Bitter and spiteful with the rejections he had received at the
hands of his parents, he vowed to overthrow his father.

Loki gathered together the children of Sol and the men of Olympia and
spoke to them of his plan.  Eight of the children of Sol and some of the
men turned away from Loki, but many more were won over to Loki's side by
his beauty and promises of great power.  Loki showed Man how to use the
power of the gods, and many greedy Men studied with Loki and soon became
great Wizards, able to challenge Sol's children in power.  Led by Loki,
the rebellious children of Sol and the Wizards rose up to throw down Sol
and to gain control for themselves of the Heavens.

Never had Sol been challenged, and it appeared at first that Loki's bold
plan would work.  The face of Sol became dim for nearly a day as Loki
and his father struggled in the sky.  Finally Sol threw his rebellious
bastard down, and flashed with angry brilliance.  The seas of Olympia
boiled and the trees on the mountains burst into flame.  Loki and his
followers turned and fled into the deep recesses beneath Olympia, but
many were killed by Sol's anger.

Just when it seemed that all would die, even those who had rejected
Loki's plan, Luna interceded to save her children.  She drew a veil of
cloud across Sol's face and bathed the land in a healing rain.  (This is
why, in the eastern provinces, Luna is called the Lady of the Veil.)
When Luna next drew the veil back, Sol had retreated to his rightful
place in the sky. 

Since the Time of the Rebellion, Sol has turned his back upon Olympia. 
No longer do the children of Sol come to Olympia; no longer do the
learned and wise children of Sol rise up from Olympia to join him in the
Heavens.  Neither does Luna protect her children, though still she
periodically turns her face from Sol in shame and anger.

Upon Olympia the eight children of Sol who remained faithful during the
Rebellion still live and strive to join their father in the Heavens. 
These eight are called Eres, the God of Sea and Wind, Anteus, the God of
Fire and Earth, Dol the Beastmaster, Timeid, Lady of Plants, Ham the
Jester, Kireus the Smith, Halon Warmaster and Domingo, Lady of Healing.
Although they no longer show their visages upon Olympia for fear of
angering their father, it is said that they sometimes wander the land in
the guise of humans, guiding and helping their followers.

Of Loki and the rebel children of Sol less can be said.  Some claim they
still live under Olympia, in a kingdom they have created in the dark
regions below.  It is said that the orcs and other foul creatures who
occasionally venture forth unto the face of Olympia from the realms below
are the twisted children of the Men who followed Loki.  Others claim that
Loki and the other Dark Children are still worshipped in secret upon the
face of Olympia, but no one has yet found a temple to one of those shamed
children. 
  
What is certain is that some men still seek greedily after the powers
that Loki shared with Man.  Wizards in lonely towers spend endless hours
studying the tomes and artifacts from the time before the Rebellion
hoping to unlock their secrets.  Although some wizards start out as
innocent scholars, most soon turn toward the dark side of power. 
Indeed, orcs and other foul creatures are sometimes seen in the service
of the wizards, and other wizards surround themselves with undead and
other fell beasts from beyond the grave. 

The High Priests of the Faithful Eight have prophesied that Sol will not
turn his favor upon Olympia until Loki and his rebels have been defeated
by Man and the Faithful Eight.  According to this prophecy, a great band
of heros led by priests of the Faithful Eight will invade Loki's dark
kingdom and destroy his forces there.  Loki himself will be struck down
by the Sword of the Sun, a mysterious and holy artifact that has been
lost since the time of the Rebellion. 



-----

incorporate Sword of the Sun earlier in the story

