
Skills
------

Skills represent knowledge that Olympian characters may know.
They are divided into category skills and subskills within those
categories.  The skill categories are:

	120  Shipcraft
	121  Combat
	122  Stealth
	123  Beastmastery
	124  Persuasion
	125  Construction
	126  Alchemy
	127  Weaponsmithing
	128  Forestry
	129  Mining

There are also six schools of magic study available.  See the
section on magic for more details on learning and casting magical
spells.

A category skill must first be learned before any of the subskills
within that category can be known.

With each skill learned, the player will receive a lore sheet
describing background information about the skill and how it
may be used.  The lore sheets for the skill categories usually
list some of the skills available for study within the category.

	For instance, a noble wishing to undertake the study of
	Shipcraft would first learn the category skill with
	the STUDY command:

		STUDY 120

	The Shipcraft lore sheet lists some of the subskills
	available for building and sailing ships.  One of these is
	Pilot ship [9502], the skill required to control a ship on
	the ocean.  The aspiring sailor could then order:

		STUDY 9502

	Once Pilot ship [9502] is known, the lore sheet describing
	its usuage will appear in the player's turn report.


Study of Skills
---------------

A subskill may only be known once its category skill is known.
For instance, one must know Shipcraft [120] before one can know
Pilot ship [9502].

Skills are taught by cities.  Port cities usually offer instruction
in Shipcraft.  One is unlikely to be able to acquire shipbuilding
knowledge in the desert, however.

Not all subskills in an area may be mentioned by the category lore
sheet.  Some skills are rare, and must be found through RESEARCH
or by finding old books describing their use.  Sometimes a journey
to a distant city may be required to learn a rare but useful skill.

Most skills require two weeks of study to learn.

STUDY may not be used for more than two weeks per turn.  Only so
much knowledge can be assimilated at a time.

If instruction in a skill is not offered by the location a character
is in, the character may still attempt to learn the skill through
RESEARCH.  Research, however, is a long, tedious process with no
guarantees of success.  Learning Shipcraft in the desert is possible,
but will probably take a long time.


Limits to Knowledge
-------------------

A noble may only know as many category skills as his level rating
allows.  For instance, a level 5 noble may know five category skills.
A novice character at level 1 may only know one category skill.

There is no limit to the number of subskills within a category that
may be known.

The very act of learning and using skills will increase a character's
rating.  Thus, experienced characters tend to know more skills than
new characters.

-----------------------------

