
quest yields generation 1 reward item

quest by a character with a generation n cookie:
	look for 2 other generation n cookies
	require them for next level

curse city with nearby castle
	no market trades
	reduce tax income
	no recruit?

Quest [for]

	ring of invisibility
	cloak of invisibility
	ring of horse catching
	fogstone
	staff of rain
	king aeolus's ring
	ring of the four winds
	sword of allegiance
	golden lamb
	divining wand
	ring of terror - maintain fear loyalty at current levels?
	gate jump facilitator
	faerie stone - use summons faerie location -- protects from elven hunt
	storm crystal - lists every storm in region
	ship locator - lists every ship in nearby ocean region
	Scepter of the Dead - shows graveyard views
	Book of Gold - lists 10 richest factions (character?) in region
	Shield of Achilles - +50 defense
	Sword of Death - +50 attack
	Javelin - +50 missile
	Crown of the Barbarians -- allows TELL for barbarian hordes

Make nasty monster
"So-and-so may only be killed by one who bears X"
(need a take-no-hits flag in combat)
(plus, noble takes no hits if holding the special item)
	magic-kill-only-special-item

Vision about beast reveals this knowledge


Create nasty monster guarding subloc
Reward is a level n+1 cookie
Require that killer have weapons A, B [, C]
A, B, C vanish

Bring items A, B, C to place X
issue command XYZZY
New subloc appears with monster, Z in it
A, B, C vanish

Collect items A, B, C
issue command XYZZY
Noble appears, has item Z, joins player
A, B, C vanish

Collect items A, B, C
Travel to port city X
issue command XYZZY
Ship appears with noble
Noble has item Z, joins player
A, B, C vanish

Find the Y
Use the elven stone to summon a faerie hill in X
Take Y to city [xx] in Faerie and {...issue the command XYZZY}
{give it to Elven King [q8]}
(set a can't die, can't be taken prisoner, no hits flag on him)


City quests
	announce in city banner

Challenges
Local quests

	Whomever can free Lady Questar [xx88] from the Dread Beast [q9]
	will win her hand in marriage.  The Dread Beast is said to be
	holding her <vague loc desc>

	A princely reward is offered for whoever can free X from Y.
	Y is in ...

	City X is under a terrible curse:  tax income is halved,
	no peasants can be recruited, the market is closed, no buildings
	can be built here, access to the port has been made impassable,
	It is said that only the holder of Y has the power to lift the curse.

	The X has been lost

---------------

QUEST command
	So-and-so of such-and-such place requests that you visit.
	When they get there, give them special ability to see home.
	Send on a quest.

	You consult with the seer foo, who says:

	A vision comes to you in the night, of:

	o  Go to a far away place (specific).  Retrieve a special object.

	o  So-and-so has been given the quest of finding the %s.
	   Find it first.

	o  The terrible lion/wolf/whatever has been plaguing the town
	   of foo.  You must kill it. [only give to heroic combat people
	   or beastmasters].


Go to city X.  There you will learn of your quest.
Go to the province X.  There you will find subloc Y.  Its owner
will admit you, and tell you of your quest.

You must go to X and kill the Y.

First go to city G.  There you may buy a Z which will allow you to succeed.

Go to province X.  There a ship Y will be waiting for you.  Board it.

