From princeton!aero.org!srt Fri May 15 00:00 EDT 1992
Received: from aerospace.aero.org by Princeton.EDU (5.65b/2.90/princeton)
	id AA18652; Fri, 15 May 92 00:06:09 -0400
Received: from localhost.aero.org by aerospace.aero.org with SMTP (5.65c/6.0.GT)
	id AA12644 for skrenta@blekko.rt.com; Thu, 14 May 1992 21:05:35 -0700
Posted-Date: Thu, 14 May 92 21:05:04 PDT
Message-Id: <199205150405.AA12644@aerospace.aero.org>
To: skrenta@blekko.rt.com (Rich Skrenta)
Cc: sjc@cs.purdue.edu, srt@aero.org
Subject: Re: You Must Admit... 
In-Reply-To: Your message of "Thu, 14 May 92 22:06:29 CDT."
             <705895591.AA9395@blekko.rt.com> 
Date: Thu, 14 May 92 21:05:04 PDT
From: srt@aero.org
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 13061
Status: RO

> You need some Dark Lord powerful-type stuff.  Like an evil tower,
> and scorched earth, and nasty dark magic.

Well, I am renaming "Castle Chardia" to "The Black Castle" this turn.
Oooh, scary!  And I've got my resident magician working on the dark 
magic stuff. 

> I don't know.  You're not evil enough.

Well, let's see.  I kill everyone I meet, but I am cheerful in e-mail.
I'll work on it.

> I'll be really dissappointed in you if you get killed.  I don't think
> the other players realize their strength; they're too frightened to act.
> Stupid them.  Oh well.

My main worries at the moment are the elder players and people from
above Summerbridge who may have spent the last six months studying at
the Warrior's Guild.  I think I can handle everyone south of
Summerbridge.  I've got about 90 trained, armored and armed men at the
moment, and I'll have 120 by the end of this turn.  It helps a lot
that I have the only access to chain, swords and crossbows south of
Summerbridge.

Unfortunately, it seems that people would rather oppose me than almost
anything else, so I sometimes feel like its me against 100+ players.
Bad odds.

You know, it kind of pisses me off when these people on rec.games.pbm
go on like the only reason I'm a success is the Castle Guard.  First
of all, there were 20 players in Chardia who could have tried
persuading the Castle Guard.  No one but me tried.  Second, I've done
some pretty clever things along the way here.  No one appreciates a
Dark Lord :-(.

> Allright.  Just for you, I have turned off the obituaries.  I am not at
> all convinced that this is a good idea, but we will see how the arguments
> sound from the other side of the fence.

What I like about you Rich, is that you think like me and you're a man
of action.  I really think this is an improvement - word of deaths will 
still get around, it will just filter around slowly, like it should in 
this kind of a culture.

>> I'll have some thoughts on that at some point.
> 
> Great!  I look forward to seeing them.

Hey, here's my thoughts on adding spice to Olympia.  This is a bit
verbose - comes from finally feeling better after 8 days of fever :-(.
Take with a boulder of salt - unlike Russell, I think Olympia is great
already.

     Ideas on How to Add Mystery and Excitement to Olympia

Philosophy

To me one of the best feelings in reading a book or in playing a
computer game is "discovery" -- finding out something exciting or
interesting, something novel and new.  While I think that Olympia does
many things well, I think that after the first few turns, there's very
little that's new and exciting to discover in Olympia. 

To create in the player a feeling of excitement and mystery, a discovery
must have both apparent and real value.

By apparent value, I mean that a discovery must not be random or simple. 
It should require working at the game: exploring, building skill levels,
accumulating money, building forces, etc.  By making discoveries
difficult to achieve, you increase their apparent worth to the player. 
If any newbie can waltz in and make a discovery, it has little value. 
But if you have to work for two game years to discover something, then
it has apparent value. 

By real value, I mean that discovery must give a player a game
advantage.  Obviously, you cannot know ahead of time what player will
make what discovery, and so you cannot tailor each discovery to the
player's goals.  But every discovery should have some value for
achieving some kind of game goal: economic, conflict, discovery, skill
advancement, etc.  And if you design the mechanisms of discovery
correctly, so that a player pursuing economic goals is likely to make
economic discoveries, a player pursuing exploration goals is likely to
make exploration discoveries, etc., the discoveries will tend to
reinforce and support each player's individual goals.
 
To maintain the atmosphere of mystery and excitement, discoveries should
be selfish.

By this I mean that discoveries should have the most game value when
kept secret.  Discoveries known to a large group of players or exploited
by a large group of players should have little game value.  This will
encourage people to keep discoveries to themselves, or share them only
amongst their closest confidantes.  Newbie players may be happy to get
the free world map from Oleg, but it certainly robs them of the
opportunity to feel that they are exploring the world.  By making
discoveries selfish, you will retain the value of discoveries.  They
will still be shared and traded, but less widely than currently.

To summarize, then, I think the Olympia needs to have added to it a
variety of "discoveries" or hidden features.  These features should be
difficult to uncover, have real game value, and be "selfish" in nature.

Concrete Suggestions

Some concrete suggestions based on this philosophy.

(1) Eliminate the LORE skill.  Giving out the lore sheets this way is
not only unrealistic (why should someone in Drassa be able to learn
something about Summerbridge), but it also devalues the mysteries of
Olympia.  LORE should be difficult to get; a shortcut is wrong.

(2) Add "demands".  A demand is an immediate need for some good that
crops up in random provinces.  For example, Bayarth might suddenly post
a sign saying, "We need building stone desperately for the repair of the
Bayarth Dam.  We'll pay 30 per for the first 100 units of building stone
delivered."  Where the price paid is 3x or 4x the market cost.  This
injects an immediate, competitive economy into the game.

(3) Add some hidden player features.  Currently players are
monochromatic.  Everyone has exactly the same composition.  Instead,
give each player 2 unique characteristics from as large a pool as you
can imagine of racial characteristics.  This will individualize each
player, and if you make this knowledge completely secret, add some
mystery in your dealings with other players.  Example characteristics:

Speed - travels routes 20% faster.
Durability - automatic +1 to armor class.
Healthy - recovers from injury and fatigue faster.
Magically Gifted - learns magical arts faster than normal.
Observant - each unit has automatic Observation 1.
Hard Workers - units earn 1.5 wages when WORKING.
Elvish - units get automatic STEALTH 2 when in forest provinces.
Canny - advantage in trading.
Dexterity - advantage with archery.
Mechanically Minded - advantage with construction and shipbuilding.

And so on.  Ideally you'd like a hundred or so of these, to give a wide
variety.  Let people choose two out of the list, or assign them randomly.

(4) Add a lot of new, rare province features.  There should be only a
few of each type in the world, each with special features.  And these
should be difficult to discover, requiring the use of EXPLORE and/or
other methods.  (I don't think there should be just one mechanism, or 
you'll just have everyone slowly walking through the wilderness whacking
an EXPLORE on every new province):

Ruins - can be mined for much greater profits than any other terrain,
    but each turn there's a chance that a monster of some sort will be 
    uncovered.  There's also a chance that an artifact or valuable item
    will be uncovered.  The ruins will be played out after so many turns
    of mining.  After that, mining in the ruins will produce more
    monsters but not great profits.

Temples - occasionally in the wilderness there should be temples to
    various gods.  Each temple will have special benefits, but only
    to the unit stack immediately under the temple.  Also, the type of 
    the temple will not be immediately evident; some research or 
    EXPLORE-ation will be necessary to determine the temple secret.  And
    although at first the benefits of the temple will be free,
    continuing the benefits of the temple will require sacrifices.
    Money and goods are sacrificed by GIVE-ing them to the temple (they 
    disappear), units are sacrificed by EXECUTing them in the temple.

    Goddess of Healing - the unit stacked under the temple heals and 
    recovers fatigue much faster than normal.  Requires money
    sacrifices. 
    
    God of War - the unit stacked under the temple can study combat free. 
    Requires a unit sacrifice each month to continue the benefit. 

    God of Magic - similar to god of war, but with magic free.
    
    (Similary for other skills, like God of Beasts, etc.)

    God of Entertainment - unit stacked underneath the temple and
    sacrificing a horse to the temple will earn maximum entertainment
    fees for the next month.

    God of Wealth - unit stacked underneath the temple sees its money
    grow at 10% a month, but requires a unit sacrifice each month.

    God of Snakes - sacrificing a unit to the temple gives the unit
    stacked under the temple control of a unit of "Death Snakes" for 
    a month or two.   You could have a God of Undead, etc. here as 
    well.

Places of Power - These are things like the Stonehenge, etc.  
    The idea is that they would give a bonus to various
    activities, mostly magical I suppose.  You could do magical research 
    50% faster at Stonehenge, etc.
    
Fairy Hills - A scattered network of fairy hills around the world lead
    to mysterious happenings.  Several things can happen to a unit that
    wanders into a province with a fairy hill.  (Hmm, better call these
    Elvish Hills to head off the obvious humor.)
    
    First, they may abruptly spend a month in the "Elvish Kings Court", a
    province where there is a market with a lot of unusual, difficult to
    find items to buy (i.e., elvish armor, elvish weapons, potions of
    healing, etc.) and maybe some elvish units that you could spend a month
    persuading, terrorizing, robbing etc.  Only one normal unit at a 
    time can be in the Fairy Kings Court, and each unit can only go once.  
    
    Second, you may be attacked by the Fairy Hunt, a tough bunch of elves
    with vicious magical archery attacks, good elvish armor, mounted,
    etc.  This should be a very dangerous, deadly attack, so that people
    don't just hang out in charmed places hoping for something good to 
    happen.

    Third, you may suddenly just lose the units for 1-6 game months.  
    They're simply out of play (perhaps with some explanatory message)
    for that amount of time.
    
    Finally, you may be transported randomly to one of the other elvish
    hills in the world - suddenly finding yourself lost in the
    wilderness many miles from home.
  
Oracles -- Oracles would be things like the original oracle, or wise 
    hermits, etc.  From an oracle you can get a piece of information 
    (a random lore sheet) once every few months.  This lore sheet will
    be revealed to everyone in the Oracle's province.  So you'll want
    to hide the location and prevent other people from being in the 
    province.  If there are ever more than 5 units in an oracle's
    province, he relocates to some currently empty sector somewhere 
    else in the world.
 
(5) Similar to the new province features, there should be new skill
features.  I don't know whether these should be entirely new skills, or
new skill uses, but unlike the "common" skills, they won't be available
to everyone at any time.  (For that matter, I think you should be
required to be in a city to start learning a new skill - I think it is
silly to be able to start training a unit on Construction out in the
middle of the wilderness.  This will also make training and discovery of
the above features more interesting - you might have to start training a
unit and rushing him out somewhere from the nearest city.)  The new
skills will need to be "discovered" by a unit to be learned; and simply
knowing the key number won't be sufficient to learn the skill, so you
just can't tell your friends.  And this is important:  Once a skill
becomes known by a certain percentage of the units in the game, it
becomes a common skill and available to everyone.  So if you discover a
neat new skill and don't keep it to yourself, you soon lose all
advantage.

Some of the things that could fall into the new skills:  Many new
schools of magic.  One or two schools of magic would be common and
well-known.  Most would be secret and need to be discovered. 
Pickpocketing, burglary, highwaymen.  Various combat tactics:
encirclement, stealth in combat, siegecraft, etc.  Crafts: basketmaking,
spearmaking, anything that can be sold in the market.  And so on.

                    -----

All right, that's it for the moment.  Get those things implemented
immediately and get back to me.  (No, wait.  Eliminate the special
player character first so that I'm still around to enjoy all these great
improvements :-)  Seriously, though, I think that the first two things 
(eliminating LORE and adding "demands") could be implemented pretty
quickly, and the second one would add a much needed economic boost to
the game, until a more realistic economy model can be added.

                                        -- Scott T.

