Issues brought up in Survey 3

1.  Building control without being there

	One of the high-runners on the request list is a way to own buildings
	without having to occupy them with a valuable noble.

	I could let players stuff men such as soldiers, etdc. into a structure.
	These would remain behind to defend the building and collect any gold
	it had coming (castle, inn).

	They would not provide a location report.  The building would not be
	able to issue commands independently.

	problems:	promote inside a building
			reporting of building contents
			sounds like building has to be active
			what about skilled tasks, like sailing a ship?
			is this a garrison mechanic?  storing men in the
							structure?

	, owner: %s, inside:

	CLAIM [1] command to claim ownership of a structure
	GIVE <structure> <who> to give title


2.  Olympia needs some major plots, goals.  More fantasy stuff.

	I'm working on an epic plot for Olympia.  Something with several
	major parts that should take a very long time to work through,
	and provide some serious politics and conflict potential.  I'll
	send details to the design list when I have this fleshed out more.

	Ages of Olympia are marked by events:

	Building of the Emperor's Citadel in Areth Pirn
		only a king may build a citadel
	Once built, king gets the Crown, Scepter and Chalice
	Perhaps some Imperial Guard troops

	Rise of the Dark Overlord
	Must achieve some evil magic feat
	Creates an item of power
	Gains control of beasts, or orc units

	Overthrow of the Emperor's Citadel
	Once razed, the Crown, Scepter and Chalice are lost

	Age of Darkness
	Overthrow of Citadel gives Dark Overlord vast powers

	Return of the Emperor
	Whoever gets the three items back from their monster
	guardians (in the world, Hades and Faery) gets the 
	Blade of Vengance.  This will kill the Dark Overlord
	and his minions.

	Once he is dead, the citadel may be built again.
	Gain lots of imperial troops.

	Perhaps lore research give clues to this epic plot

	Include some riddles

	Riddle in lore required to enter a building
	Inside is a monster guarding some important object

	XXX Monster can only be defeated by ZZZ
	ZZZ is being held by the King of Hades in Hades
	Cannot defeat king of hades; must pay him 10,000 gold
	he will then transfer the prisoner
	learn this from the lore skill


3.  Cache command

4.  Partial construction -- don't need all materials at once

	Done.

5.  Write a Fast start guide and a Strategy guide

6.  Wandering monsters should have some treasure.
	Done.

7.  Implicit MOVE OUT when you are in a sublocation and forget to leave
    before moving would be nice.
	Done.

8.  Progress is too slow at the beginning of the game

	a.  Give each new player 5 peasants
		Done.

	b.  Replace claim stone mechanism with an instant tower creator.
	    The new player will not have to learn Construction.  Instead,
	    they will simply have to find a suitable location, and then
	    will be able to instantly create a tower there.

	c.  Newbie land (Olympia city?)
		May remain six turns.
		May teleport to any city from newbie land

