No mistakes, no experience; no experience, no wisdom.

Klatu Mirada Nikto
The Laughing Duke
Yukon Cornelius
He sharpens his teeth on the bones of his victims.
You're at the end of the road again.
Olympia:  Quality PBMing since 1988.
Complex...yet simple.
Dark horse pitching a googly (sp?) at your age!


	Olympia Motto:

		Who made the world I cannot tell;
		'Tis made, and here am I in hell.
		My hand, though now my knuckles bleed,
		I never soiled with such a deed.

				-- A. E. Housman

In the fields of Hell where the grass grows high
Are the graves of dreams allowed to die.

The Pig, if I am not mistaken,
Gives us ham and pork and Bacon.
Let others think his heart is big,
I think it stupid of the Pig.
                -- Ogden Nash

Dead cat in a stained, oily bag, forgotten in the corner.

Squirrely hijinks

Do do a do, don't do a don't.

Quote from the anthem: blood has washed out their foul footstep's...
Cross on the green, not inbetween.

PBM fun since '91.

Money...Power...Death!


If the immediate and direct purpose of our life is not
suffering then our existence is the most ill-adapted to
its purpose in the world:  for it is absurd to suppose
that the endless affliction of which the world is
everywhere full, and which arises out of the need and
distress pertaining essentially to life, should be
purposeless and purely accidental.  Each individual
misfortune, to be sure, seems an exceptional occurrence;
but misfortune in general is the rule.

			-- Schopenhauer

   And where is that band who so vauntingly swore
   That the havoc of war and the battle's confusion
   A home and a country should leave us no more?
   Their blood has washed out their foul footstep's pollution.


Oh turn not in from marching
  To taverns on the way,
The drought and thirst and parching
  A little dust will lay,
  And take desire away.

Oh waste no words a-wooing
  The soft sleep to your bed;
She is not worth pursuing,
  You will so soon be dead;
  And death will serve indead.

			-- A.E. Housman

In our early youth we sit before the life that lies ahead of
us like children sitting before the curtain in a theater, in
happy and tense anticipation of whatever is going to appear.
Luckily we do not know what really will appear.  For to him
who does know, children can sometimes seem like innocent
delinquents, sentenced not to death but to life, who have
not yet discovered what their punishment will consist of.
Nonetheless, everyone desires to achieve old age, that is to
say a condition in which one can say:  'Today it is bad, and
day by day it will get worse -- until at least the worst of
all arrives.'

			-- Schopenhauer

