go through mail and eliminate all g2 comments

1. Where will the new Trade skill be offered?

docs:
	add g2changes list
	include fast start guides in rules

> And if so, would the noble retain the oathed
> rating once control is converted?


perhaps raise 0-2 beast rate to something a little higher

doc:
	build raft
	survive fatal wound helps if you fall into the ocean
	put route travel times chart in the rules

text signup form, autoresponse server

npc token unit:  one unit, not replaced if dies, fix lore sheets




> a corallary for combat, Refuse Booty, which allows you to automatically
> drop things like stone and wood, rather than be attacked by a lone noble
> with 500 stone, just to pin you down for the turn.


x.
	Passing a faction whole to a new player seems okay to me,
	so long as the recipient ends up playing only one faction.
	Playing multiple positions is definitely against the rules,
	but as you point out it is nearly impossible to enforce,
	and there are grey areas, such as playing a friend's position
	while they are away.
	 
	Perhaps I could include a new stern warning regarding
	playing multiple positions, to make my position more clear
	on this point.


1.  $2.50 signup fee


3.  Golden City
	cost to enter
	seed for sale items
	teach list
	or remove it

4.  Check magic numbers in add.c and display.c


html'ify turn report?

Give Cloudlands a 3-D configuration

GM relic owners

Add random view of a starting city to the Times each month

New unique artifacts:


Helmet of Victory
	provides a +1 attack bonus to every figure in a combat stack

Sceptre of Birth:
	USE of the sceptre will yield a random treasure
	to the noble holding it (gold, rare book, aura boost
	for mages, etc.)

	The Sceptre may only be used once per faction.

	Giving the sceptre to a noble belonging to a faction
	which has never held it before will yield 1 NP to
	the giver.

The ring
	Grants invisibility to one who possesses it, and a 50%
	bonus to vision and scry attempts.  Also helps to pierce
	through scry and vision shields.  Yields 1 aura/week extra
	aura recovery.

	Loss of the ring (by either giving it or having it taken away)
	causes the noble to immediately fall ill and lose half his
	health.  If the noble is a mage, his permanent aura is halved.

Artifacts may not be carried via teleportation.


Stone to govern where the flying cloud city goes


Cloudstone:
	makes the route up to the Cloudlands solid for the turn

Golden City
	huge cost in gold to enter, per head
	special market there or something, with really
	expensive stuff for sale

	figure inflation by averaging the wealth of
	the top 5 factions

	the fee to enter the Golden City should be a percentage

	min 5000

	must put some good stuff up for sale there though

	fee decays 5%/turn if no one enters
	fee rises 50% * num to enter per turn


o  Weapons that kill a single type of monster each time they are used.
   Make only one for each monster type.  Make some of them ranged weapons.
   A noble can only carry one such weapon at once (your "trade up" idea).
 
o  Red slippers that return the noble -- and just the noble -- to the
   location where he or she was formed ("There's no place like home...").
   Any troops or other items carried by the noble will be given to the
   noble's stack leader or the first noble stacked under the noble or
   they will be dropped if there is no one to give the items to.  
 
o  Items that allow all the available resources of one kind in a location 
   (e.g. wood, stone, etc.) to be taken in one day by one noble (e.g.
   a magic axe, a magic pick, a magic shovel, a magic rope, etc.).  Do a
   sanity check on this one first but it shouldn't be too harmful for
   the basic resources since most determined factions can all but do
   this, anyway, with workers.
 
o  Some sort of device that allows a certain weight to walk across water
   without a boat.  Perhaps a magic raft.
 
o  A magical hound that works like the real ones -- perhaps a little
   bit better.



Comments
--------
	Don't allow mage menial in safe havens?


>  Relics; Nice idea, but the Throne (and others) should wiegh more.  The
> Throne would be a nice 500 unit item, to my mind.  For inspiration for
> other items, you might look to g1, where the factions, particularly the
> early ones, did remarkable things worth memorializing.


> Another notion might be a ship that moved faster than
> normal, or flew, and was repairable but indestructible (at 0% it no
> longer moved until repaired.  An automaton of 500,500,0 wieghing 5000, and
> acting as an NPC might also be useful, and appropriate to Olympia.  A
> stationary Oracle, prehaps set on an island, which had the same powers and
> limitations as a priest's vision might also be nice.



Orb of Darkness:
	The Orb of Darkness is an aura sink.  It drains 2 aura per
	week from every mage located in the same province, and 1
	aura per week from every mage located in adjacent provinces.


Dagger of Fire:
	A gold and jewel encrusted blade which burns the minds
	of nearby mages.  The Dagger inhibits the natural weekly
	aura regeneration, as well as aura recovery via Meditation,
	Advanced Meditation, and Trance, in the immediate and
	adjacent provinces.

Horn of Fear
	The Horn of Fear produces an unearthly, terrifying wail, which
	frightens men and beasts.  When heard in foggy provinces, all
	men and beasts suffer a 50% chance of desertion, either by
	madness, fighting amongst themselves, or simply freeing in
	terror.

	The Horn may be heard throughout the province in which it is
	blown, as well as in adjacent provinces.

	The horn must be used in Hades to acquire its terrifying
	power.  It may then be used once in the normal world, after
	which is must be returned to Hades before it may be used
	again.  The horn is ineffective in Faery.

capture winged horses subskill of beastmastery?

Crooked staff of Oleg the Peasant

	60%	25-125 peasants appear
	20%	it starts to rain
	20%	it starts to rain, and the noble
		is struck by lightning (25-100 hit to health)

Sceptre of Continuance

	Increases decay rating time
	requires gold as an offering to make work



o  Every city teaches Combat (since you need combat to build troops)
   and Construction (needed to build towers and such -- how a city
   gets built up so it makes sense).
 
o  Each city teaches a regional skill (Beastmastery in plains and
   swamps [I suspect it will still be a much desired skill], Mining in
   mountains, Forestry in forests, and Trading in deserts [how do you
   think they maintain cities in the desert, huh? :->].  Any port
   city will also teach Shipcraft in addition to any regional skill
   indicated by the terrain outside of the city.  The six starting
   safe havens should be divided between all five terrains with the
   last city also being a forest city (basically, 2 Beastmastery, 
   1 Trading, 1 Mining, and 2 Forestry cities). 
 
o  Each city teaches a dark or subversive skill -- either Stealth
   (50%), Persuasion (45%), or Necromancy (5%).  Exactly which of these
   skills a city teaches will remain hidden until discovered by an
   EXPLORE that turns it up.  This will allow for quests to find
   Necromancy.  Safe havens will only have Stealth.  The idea is that
   the underground of each city operates by one of these means and
   you need to find it get get training in it.  Vary the percentages
   to suit your tastes.  
 
o  Each city will teach one magic skill -- Magic, Alchemy, Gatecraft,
   Weather Magic, Scrying, or Artifact Construction.  Since that is
   6 magics, you divide them between the six starting safe havens,
   one each, and then randomly everywhere else.  This will add some
   flavor the the starting selections.
 
Where this differs from your plan is that Shipcraft is an extra and
Forestry isn't guaranteed to starting players.  Magic is just another
Magic and players can pick which magic they might want to start with
by picking their starting city.  Finally, I think that obscuring Stealth,
Persuasion, and Necromancy might add some flavor and hint that these
are potentially troubling skills.  It makes people have to really work
to find them.


skew art distribution so a unique artifact comes out of the tunnels


use max(men, beasts) for movement delay
increase to 20 or more.  Hmmm.


make the flying city & the keystone
random movement at turn end if keystone hasn't been used



Take auraculum notification.  No doubt the players who auraculated
later in the game complained that notification put them at an unfair
advantage.  Strictly speaking, that's of course true.  But doesn't
that add some spice and interest to the game, knowing that if you do
this thing you'll be challenging a power structure?  Doesn't it make
it interesting to rush to be the first to auraculate?  It makes the
decision on when to auraculate interesting as well.  Wait, and be more
powerful?  Or auraculate sooner and get the drop on others who follow?

