Important Notice
----------------

Your moderator has moved to the San Francisco Bay Area.  Please send all
postal correspondence to Shadow Island's new address.  If you have recently
sent mail to the old address, don't worry, it will be collected and
forwarded.  However, please be tolerant of any delays the forwarding may
incur.

Our new address is:

	Shadow Island Games
	P.O. Box 390983
	Mountain View, CA 94039-0983

Electronic contact information (domain name, email address, web URL's, etc.)
will not change.

Our phone and fax numbers will change at some point in the future.
You may continue to use the existing numbers for now.


New WAIT option
---------------

WAIT TURN <n>

	Wait until it is turn N.


             Prime Commandment

Thou shalt make no law restricting the size of
integers that may be multiplied together, nor
the number of times that an integer may be
multiplied by itself, nor the modulus by which
an integer may be reduced.


Notice:
-------

Shadow Island Games is discontinuing support for the CompuServe
PBMGAMES forum.  What this means is:

	1)  We will no longer be uploading the _Olympia Times_ to
	    the PBMGAMES forum library.

	    CompuServe players may issue the "TIMES 1" order to begin
	    receiving the Olympia Times via email.

	2)  Shadow Island will not actively participate in the PBMGAMES
	    forum.  Questions directed to us there may go unanswered.

	    This extends to our CompuServe email address.  Queries should
	    instead be directed to our Internet address "support@pbm.com".

We are doing this for several reasons:

	Only a handful of Olympia players continue to use PBMGAMES.
	Even most of the players who originally joined from there
	have moved on to other online services.

	The PBMGAMES forum staff limits what can be said in the forum.
	We have always felt this to be an onerous burden.  Because
	of these restrictions we may not announce or easily support
	our new games, such as the recently launched Arena PBEM.

	The Usenet newsgroup rec.games.pbm seems to be picking up
	much more activity from players as well as commercial GM's.
	We continue to provide support through rec.games.pbm and email.

	While our access to the Internet is excellent, the tools to
	support CompuServe are proprietary, and primitive by comparison.

In short, PBMGAMES censors what we can say, is technically bothersome
to access, and is largely irrelevant now anyway.



	Note that the Olympia Times may be read on the Web at
	http://www.pbm.com/oly/times/, and may be FTP'd from
	ftp.pbm.com in directory pub/olympia/times.

	If you currently receive the _Times_ via email but read it
	elsewhere, you may stop receiving it with the "TIMES 0" order.




"Being rich is having money.  Being wealthy is having time."


> 1: > rumor 1 ...
> 1: Rumor posted.
> 1: The Times refuses to pay you.

I suppose I have to publicize these things to make them an effective
deterrent.  Remember the Olympia Times editorial guideline #3:

        3.  No "junk" submissions just to get the 25 gold.
            Your character is being paid to write something 
            useful or interesting to the other players.
            It needn't be long or literary; just something
            half-way reasonable (i.e. don't send in "Blah blah,
            give me my gold.")

I'm watching for especially irritating one-line repeated submissions to
the rumors section.  The fellow who posted "This space intentionally left
blank" the past 10 turns no longer receives 25 gold for his literary
efforts.  I have a special fondness for old DEC jokes, but it was really
beat to death in this case.

The rest of you one-liner posters, consider yourselves warned.




Boiling acid rock

Fred Brooks quote: users love a system once the designers abandon it

Under new management
Grand reopening

Klatu Mirada Nikto
The Laughing Duke
Yukon Cornelius
He sharpens his teeth on the bones of his victims.
Olympia:  Quality PBMing since 1988.
Complex...yet simple.
Dark horse pitching a googly (sp?) at your age!


In the fields of Hell where the grass grows high
Are the graves of dreams allowed to die.

The Pig, if I am not mistaken,
Gives us ham and pork and Bacon.
Let others think his heart is big,
I think it stupid of the Pig.
                -- Ogden Nash

Dead cat in a stained, oily bag, forgotten in the corner.



   And where is that band who so vauntingly swore
   That the havoc of war and the battle's confusion
   A home and a country should leave us no more?
   Their blood has washed out their foul footstep's pollution.

Experience is the comb that Nature gives us after we are bald.

When you arrive at your future, will you blame your past?

In case you're running out of A.E. Housman to quote in the Olympia
Times, I would suggest Edna St. Vincent Millay.  It's much of the same
subject matter (death, pathos, etc.), but from a woman's point of
view.  Here's one of her lighter verses that I like to quote:


		    Midnight Oil

	Cut if you will, with Sleep's dull knife,
	    Each day to half its length, my friend --
	The years that Time takes off *my* life,
	    He'll take from off the other end!

		        -- Edna St. Vincent Millay


And, as put more succinctly:

         I'll sleep when I'm dead.

		        -- Warren Zevon

Nattering Newbies
Nattering New-nobodies

